Add docs for ApplySet-based pruning in kubectl apply (#39818)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/manage-kubernetes-objects/declarative-config.md

Reviewer: Make sure to add `applyset.k8s.io/is-parent-type` and `applyset.k8s.io/part-of` to https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/labels-annotations-taints/ - this is the PR that should do so, I think.

Author: Done! As a side-note, should well-known labels/annotations that are only used on the client side be catalogued there (or somewhere else)? Kustomize / the KRM Functions specification has a few:
- https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/blob/master/cmd/config/docs/api-conventions/manifest-annotations.md
- https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/blob/master/cmd/config/docs/api-conventions/functions-spec.md#internal-annotations

I can make a PR against main to add them if they should be there.

Reviewer: We should register every annotation that any part of the project is using (either setting, or heeding) in released code. Even in alpha code, if released.

Author: PR here! https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/40099

kubectl delete -f <filename>
```

### Alternative: `kubectl apply -f <directory/> --prune`

> As an alternative to `kubectl delete`, you can use `kubectl apply` to identify objects to be deleted after their configuration files have been removed from the directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an alternative to `kubectl delete`, you can use `kubectl apply` to identify objects to be deleted after
their manifests have been removed from a directory in the local filesystem.
```

> There are currently two pruning modes available in kubectl apply:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes {{< skew currentVersion >}}, there are two pruning modes available in kubectl apply:
```

- Allowlist-based pruning: This mode has existed since kubectl v1.5 but is still in alpha due to usability, correctness and performance issues with its design. The ApplySet-based mode is designed to replace it, and upon its graduation, allowlist-based pruning will be deprecated using beta timelines.

> - ApplySet-based pruning: An ApplySet is a server-side object (by default, a Secret) that kubectl can use to accurately and efficiently track set membership across `apply` operations. This mode was introduced in kubectl v1.27 as a replacement for allowlist-based pruning. It is under active development.

Reviewer: Is this alpha / beta / what? Let's explain it.

Author: ```suggestion
- ApplySet-based pruning: An ApplySet is a server-side object (by default, a Secret) that kubectl can use to accurately and efficiently track set membership across `apply` operations. This mode was introduced in kubectl v1.27 as a replacement for allowlist-based pruning. It is in alpha and under active development in Kubernetes {{< skew currentVersion >}}.
```

{{< tabs name="kubectl_apply_prune" >}}
{{% tab name="Allowlist" %}}

> {{</* feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.5" state="alpha" */>}}

Reviewer: Did you mean:
```suggestion
{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.5" state="alpha" >}}
```

{{< /warning >}}

To use allowlist-based pruning, add the following flags to your `kubectl apply` invocation:
- `--prune`: Delete previously applied objects that are not in the set passed to the current invocation.
- `--prune-allowlist`: A list of group-version-kinds (GVKs) to consider for pruning. This flag is optional but strongly encouraged, as its [default value](https://git.k8s.io/kubectl/pkg/util/prune/prune.go#L28-L50) is a partial list of both namespaced and cluster-scoped types, which can lead to surprising results.
- `--selector/-l`: Use a label selector to constrain the set of objects selected for pruning. This flag is optional but strongly encouraged.
- `--all`: use instead of `--selector/-l` to explicitly select all previously applied objects of the allowlisted types.

Allowlist-based pruning queries the API server for all objects of the allowlisted GVKs that match the given labels (if any), and attempts to match the returned live object configurations against the object
configuration files. If an object matches the query, and it does not have a
configuration file in the directory, and it has a `last-applied-configuration` annotation,
it is deleted.

```shell

> kubectl apply -f <directory/> --prune -l <labels> --prune-allowlist=<gvks>

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
kubectl apply -f <directory/> --prune -l <labels> --prune-allowlist=<gvk-list>
```

```

{{< warning >}}
Apply with prune should only be run against the root directory
containing the object configuration files. Running against sub-directories
can cause objects to be unintentionally deleted if they were previously applied, 
have the labels given (if any), and do not appear in the subdirectory.
{{< /warning >}}

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab name="ApplySet" %}}

> {{</* feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.27" state="alpha" */>}}

Reviewer: Did you mean:
```suggestion
{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.27" state="alpha" >}}
```

```

### Alternative: `kubectl apply -f <directory/> --prune`

As an alternative to `kubectl delete`, you can use `kubectl apply` to identify objects to be deleted after
their manifests have been removed from a directory in the local filesystem.

In Kubernetes {{< skew currentVersion >}}, there are two pruning modes available in kubectl apply:
- Allowlist-based pruning: This mode has existed since kubectl v1.5 but is still in alpha due to usability, correctness and performance issues with its design. The ApplySet-based mode is designed to replace it, and upon its graduation, allowlist-based pruning will be deprecated using beta timelines.
- ApplySet-based pruning: An ApplySet is a server-side object (by default, a Secret) that kubectl can use to accurately and efficiently track set membership across `apply` operations. This mode was introduced in alpha in kubectl v1.27 as a replacement for allowlist-based pruning. Unlike allowlist-based pruning, it is under active development and is expected to ultimately become generally available.

{{< tabs name="kubectl_apply_prune" >}}
{{% tab name="Allowlist" %}}

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.5" state="alpha" >}}

{{< warning >}}

> Only use this if you know what you are doing. You must be careful when using this command, so that you do not delete objects unintentionally. For more information on the problems with this command, see the [Current Implementation](git.k8s.io/enhancements/keps/sig-cli/3659-kubectl-apply-prune#current-implementation) section of the ApplySet KEP.

Author: The reverse is also true--it can orphan objects that should have been pruned. And user choices regarding the allowlist and labels flags can also cause and/or exacerbate either issue.

- `--selector/-l`: Use a label selector to constrain the set of objects selected for pruning. This flag is optional but strongly encouraged.
- `--all`: use instead of `--selector/-l` to explicitly select all previously applied objects of the allowlisted types.

Allowlist-based pruning queries the API server for all objects of the allowlisted GVKs that match the given labels (if any), and attempts to match the returned live object configurations against the object
configuration files. If an object matches the query, and it does not have a
configuration file in the directory, and it has a `last-applied-configuration` annotation,
it is deleted.

```shell
kubectl apply -f <directory/> --prune -l <labels> --prune-allowlist=<gvk-list>
```

{{< warning >}}
Apply with prune should only be run against the root directory
containing the object configuration files. Running against sub-directories
can cause objects to be unintentionally deleted if they were previously applied, 
have the labels given (if any), and do not appear in the subdirectory.
{{< /warning >}}

{{% /tab %}}

> {{% tab name="ApplySet" %}}

Author: You can't (though some KEP reviewers suggested a built-in as a possible natural evolution of this feature, at which point that's exactly what we'd make possible). For now, it is essentially a duck type based on the conventional label.

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.27" state="alpha" >}}

> {{< warning >}}

Author: This is just intended as a standard alpha warning, so I'll switch it to caution I guess? This feature is more dangerous than others not because it is incomplete or particularly immature or anything like that; simply because its purpose is to perform destructive actions (deletions), which makes misunderstandings/misuse more consequential. Our unit test coverage is very good (MUCH better than what's there for allowlist-based pruning), and we have a basic multi-step e2e in place as well.

> `kubectl apply --prune --applyset` is in alpha, and backwards incompatible

Reviewer 2: This warning is why I'd probably not document the labels in the other file, not yet. If we decide to go with a resource, rather than label it'll be confusing and we'll have users relying on alpha feature, which is not plainly obvious in that other file.
